Docs2 (#9458)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/reference/ydb-cli/workload-tpcds.md

> # TPC-DS workload
> 
> The workload is based on the TPC-DS [documentation](https://www.tpc.org/TPC_Documents_Current_Versions/pdf/TPC-DS_v3.2.0.pdf), and the queries and table schemas are adapted for {{ ydb-short-name }}.
> 
> The test generates a typical workload in the decision support area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TPC-DS workload

The workload is based on the TPC-DS [documentation](https://www.tpc.org/TPC_Documents_Current_Versions/pdf/TPC-DS_v3.2.0.pdf), with the queries and table schemas adapted for {{ ydb-short-name }}.

This benchmark generates a workload typical for decision support systems.
```

> ## Common command options
> 
> All commands support the common option `--path`, which specifies the path to the directory with tables in the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common command options

All commands support the common option `--path`, which specifies the path to the directory containing benchmark tables in the database:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds --path tpcds/s1 ...
```

### Available options { #common_options }

Option name | Option description
---|---

> `--path` or `-p` | Path to the directory with tables. Default value is `/`

Reviewer: Also looks like copy-paste.

Author: there is difference in default value

> ## Initializing the load test {#init}
> 
> Before running the benchmark, create a table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initializing the load test {#init}

Before running the benchmark, create a table:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds --path tpcds/s1 init
```

> See the description of the command to run the load:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the command description to run the load:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds init --help
```

{% include [init_options](./_includes/workload/init_options_tpc.md) %}

> ## Loading data into the table { #load }
> 
> Load data into the table. The data will be generated directly by {{ ydb-cli }}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Loading data into the table { #load }

The data will be generated and loaded into the table directly by {{ ydb-short-name }} CLI:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds --path tpcds/s1 import generator --scale 1
```

> See the description of the command to load the data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the command description:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds import --help
```

### Available options {#load_files_options}

Option name | Option description
---|---
`--scale <value>` | Data scale. Powers of ten are usually used.
`--tables <value>` | Comma-separated list of tables to generate. Available tables: `customer`, `nation`, `order_line`, `part_psupp`, `region`, `supplier`. All tables are created by default.
`--proccess-count <value>` or `-C <value>` | Data generation can be split into several processes, this parameter specifies the number of processes. Default value: 1.
`--proccess-index <value>` or `-i <value>` | Data generation can be split into several processes, this parameter specifies the process number. Default value: 0.

> `--state <path>` | Path to the download state file. If the download was interrupted for some reason, the download will be continued from the same place when it is started again.

Reviewer: The same question on whether we're downloading anything here

> Option name | Option description
> ---|---
> `--scale <value>` | Data scale. Powers of ten are usually used.
> `--tables <value>` | Comma-separated list of tables to generate. Available tables: `customer`, `nation`, `order_line`, `part_psupp`, `region`, `supplier`. All tables are created by default.
> `--proccess-count <value>` or `-C <value>` | Data generation can be split into several processes, this parameter specifies the number of processes. Default value: 1.
> `--proccess-index <value>` or `-i <value>` | Data generation can be split into several processes, this parameter specifies the process number. Default value: 0.
> `--state <path>` | Path to the download state file. If the download was interrupted for some reason, the download will be continued from the same place when it is started again.
> `--clear-state` | Relevant if the `--state` parameter is specified. Clear the state file and start the download from the beginning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                    | Default value |
|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `--scale <value>`                     | Data scale. Typically, powers of ten are used.                                                                                                                  |               |
| `--tables <value>`                    | Comma-separated list of tables to generate. Available tables: `customer`, `nation`, `order_line`, `part_psupp`, `region`, `supplier`.                           | All tables    |
| `--process-count <value>` or `-C <value>` | Specifies the number of processes for parallel data generation.                                                                                                  | `1`           |
| `--process-index <value>` or `-i <value>` | Specifies the process number when data generation is split into multiple processes.                                                                              | `0`           |
| `--state <path>`                      | Path to the state file for resuming downloads. If the download is interrupted, it will resume from the same point when restarted.                                |               |
| `--clear-state`                       | Relevant if the `--state` parameter is specified. Clears the state file and restarts the download from the beginning.                                             |               |
```

{% include [load_options](./_includes/workload/load_options.md) %}

## Run the load test { #run }

Run the load:

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds --path tpcds/s1 run
```

During the benchmark, load statistics are displayed for each request.

> See the description of the command to run the load:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the command description:
```

```bash
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds run --help
```

{% include [run_options](./_includes/workload/run_options.md) %}

### TPC-DS-specific options { #run_tpcds_options }

Option name | Option description
---|---
`--ext-query-dir <name>` | Directory with external queries for load execution. Queries should be in files named `q[1-99].sql`. No default value.

> ## Test data cleaning { #clean }
> 
> Run cleaning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test data cleanup { #cleanup }

Run cleanup:
```

```bash

> {{ ydb-cli }} workload clickbench --path clickbench/hits clean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ ydb-cli }} workload tpcds --path tpcds/s1 clean
```
